But Tante Clotilde herself had undergone a change since Lady Day, when a
fair wind from France had blown so many clouds out of the Royalist sky.
Her majesty was not less, her loyalism even more pronounced, but a
ribbon of a discreet maroon shade had replaced the black moiré round
her cap, and her manner to all and sundry was marked by an unexampled
benignancy. So that Laurent, when he had saluted her dry, shrivelled
hand with the mourning ring, was almost startled by the sensible favour
with which she kissed him on either cheek, for though the greeting was
not a novelty, it was often frosty. Tante Clotilde considered that
Laurent spoke English too well, and his mother's habit of occasionally
calling him Laurence--"a girl's name"--was an abomination to her. But,
willy-nilly, her great-nephew would have to be entirely French now.

M. de Vicq, on introduction, made him a bow of another generation, and
the young man, having duly delivered his note, was inspired to announce
his hope that if the newcomer were staying the night he would give the
ladies his escort up to Keynton House; this addition to the party
would, he assured him, procure his mother and himself the greatest
pleasure. After the proper amount of pressing the old gentleman
accepted, and Laurent thereupon began to make efforts to extricate
himself from his great-aunts' drawing-room.

But this was not so easy. M. de Vicq, whose fervour appeared to be
almost equal to that of the old ladies, had embarked on a rapturous
description of the enthusiasm manifested at the entry of the Duc
d'Angoulême, the King's nephew, into Bordeaux about three weeks before,
the news of which had caused such joyful anticipations in the little
court at Hartwell, and since, after all, Laurent was French and on the
point of treading French soil, the narration was not devoid of
interest. Only it had not the charm of entire novelty, and he would
rather have heard it at another time. It must, therefore, have been a
rather unfortunate spirit of contradiction which led him to remark that
Brittany and Vendée, for all their long and glorious struggle on behalf
of monarchy, had not at this particular juncture played much part in
the imminent restoration of the royal house.

"Oh, que si, Monsieur!" exclaimed the Baron, shocked; and Tante Clotilde
said, "Fie, nephew!" in her deepest voice, and he was assured that
under the rule of "the Corsican" more than thirty secondary chiefs had
perished in that region for the Cause, and their names began to shower
upon him.

"I take back my remark!" cried the young man, laughing. "Besides, after
all, mes tantes, you are not mentioning a leader who is alive, which is
better. What about that fellow in Brittany--L'Oiseleur, the Fowler, who
is always luring the enemy into difficult positions, and who is
personally so lucky that he is supposed to possess a charm of some
sort? . . . Or is that all a myth, and his defence of the burning mill
also?"